---
category: personal
title: On Trump and the success of conservative policies
---

Re: 2024 US presidential elections - I’ve been trying to empathize with Trump voters. Not that they need empathy, but I believe that the lack thereof is how people get blindsided by unfavorable election outcomes. In a perfect relatively better world, there is likely a set of policies that can address key issues without violating human/constitutional rights and brewing hearted towards entire groups of people.

There are lots of theories about why people support Trump. He’s supposedly popular amongst uneducated, lower-middle class white people, and of course, conservative Christians. However, that does not account for a significant portion of the voter population - I haven’t studied the statistics on this yet, but I imagine the demographic that intuitively should not be Trump supporters (e.g. marginalized groups in America) are probably capable of swinging the election by the few percentage points every election seems to come down to, which did happen in the Republican Party’s favor during this election cycle.

Clearly, Trump and the Republican Party are delivering a message that resonates across race, religion, and socioeconomic status. There’s a quote someone once told me: "when you’re young, if you don’t vote Democrat, you have no heart. When you’re older, if you don’t vote Republican, you have no brain." I think the divide between the two parties boils down to - the party that cares about _all_ people versus the party that is hateful, or, the party that will actually do something to make life better for its people versus the party that wastes resources at the expense of supporting its own people, depending on your perspective. 

People who believe that they have worked hard and are good citizens and therefore deserve good things are probably more likely to be Republican. People who believe that outcomes, whether it’s about themselves or others, are not directly correlated with effort are probably more likely to be Democratic. These are both reasonable philosophies on the surface, but the problem with modern-day politics is that these parties will lean into certain rhetorics to tug at people’s emotions, which is a far more effective strategy for gaining voter populous than addressing issues from a logical perspective.

For example, for those who believe that they have worked hard and deserve good things, but in reality they worked hard and are not getting enough things, blaming the people who are "stealing their resources" like liberals and illegal immigrants is a very effective strategy. Interestingly, the pandemic and natural fluctuations of the global economy are much more likely to blame for people’s worsened economic conditions, yet those are very often omitted from conversations because they aren’t actionable and isn’t something that one can fight about.

On the flip side, for those who believe that people’s situations are not a reflection of who they are would be absolutely appalled that the country would evict people just because they were born in a different country. People do not choose their genders or sexualities, and stripping individuals of support and actively discriminating against them is a violation of human rights.

These philosophies can even be applied to topics like abortion. I used to think being pro-life was exclusively a religious artifact, but if you really think about it, Republicans don’t need to support abortion rights because if you’re a respectful member of society, you wouldn’t ever get into a situation where you would need an abortion - you only got pregnant when you intended on it, and then you would have the kid properly. Only people who have seriously screwed up their own lives on their own accord would need an abortion, and so they deserve to experience the consequences of their actions. (I don’t think I need to explain the liberal perspective.)

I see the conservative philosophy as equivalent to, "put your own oxygen mask on before assisting others," and the liberal philosophy as, "if someone is dying on the street, please help them." I think it makes a lot of sense that the country has been swaying between the two: when times are bad, people want to put out the fires in their own homes. When times are okay, they want to support their neighbors - that is, until their own fires start up again.

[Relevant article](https://time.com/voices-from-democratic-counties-where-trump-won-big/)
