---
categories: website personal
title: habits pt 2
date: 2025-11-2 23:00:00
---

Well, I skipped a few days...I realized I was able to post pretty consistently these past two weeks because I would write my blog posts during class (and last weekend, I wrote them on the Shinkansen, so effectively the same thing as class). However, this was a long weekend, and I was pretty busy without enough alone time + access to computer. I'll be perfectly honest, it wasn't because I didn't have time, though. I definitely could've squeezed something in each day. But something about the environment influences what I tend to do. When I'm at home with the most freedom, I find I either prefer to work or end up completely slacking off and browsing the internet. When I'm out and about, it somehow feels a bit too degenerate to just be browsing the internet in class or at a cafe, but there's a bit too much going on to go into work hyperfocus-mode, so blog-writing is the perfect activity. (Yeah, I guess I could just pay attention in class, but that would just be too logical.)

I've been keeping up my exercise schedule ever since the triathlon camp last weekend. That one feels a bit more like, there are negative consequences to not keeping up the schedule (I won't be able to achieve my fitness goals), so there is _some_ pressure outside of just my own sheer willpower. I'm definitely a kind of person who benefits from more structure, so in general this entire year of the least structure I've ever had in my life has been very chaotic for me. I also clearly don't understand moderation - like I haven't ever proven I can do one thing consistently that didn't have dire external consequences, so why do I think I can do two (blog + training) all of a sudden? I guess now that I'm living alone, it seems like I've just gotten all this time and ability to set my own schedule, but I wonder how sustainable this lifestyle really will be (especially given that my sleep schedule is still a complete train wreck).

My most recent life updates have been: the potential roommate that I found decided to rent a different apartment, which was honestly okay with me because I do appreciate my own space and am okay with paying a bit more for a limited period of time. That being said, I probably need to cancel my lease sooner rather than later so I don't end up bleeding more money, but there's this awkward situation where I have to pay a 1 month fee for breaking my lease before 1 full year, but December will be 10 months...so if I make it to January (11 months), I might as well just keep it until February to avoid the fee. Since I'm leaving language school at the end of the year anyways, and I'm not really having a great time, I'm also considering quitting. That will buy me a lot more time during the day (the 1-4 schedule is honestly so annoying because I can't really do anything in the morning or evening), but will also give me perhaps too much schedule freedom that knowing myself, I may not end up using wisely. But the company I've been working for is setting up their office imminently, so it might be nice to finally live a normal employed life again and go into the office every day. I'm also thinking of going back to the US for a while over the holidays. The loneliness may or may not be getting to me... (it's 100% getting to me.)

And last but not least, after ending my current lease, I'm strongly considering moving out of Tokyo. I'll talk about this more in a future post.