---
categories: japan personal
title: overcoming procrastination
date: 2025-10-22 23:00:00
---

This one's going to be a short post. I really love having the flexibility of being a contractor/freelancer, and really appreciate that the companies I'm working for now are entirely outcomes-focused versus requiring me to show up on a schedule, at a location, attend meetings, etc. But with freedom comes responsibility of course, and I still don't have the discipline to do it. I've always been the biggest procrastinator of all time - I'm the worst offender of waiting until literally the last minute to do my assignments in school, and the only times I've hit flow state at work is when people were constantly relying on me to output in order to do their jobs. If I want all the benefits that come with this kind of job, I know I have to finally figure out how to untrain my procrastinating brain and stick to a regular schedule. I've been so out of whack these past few days since coming back from Shanghai, sleeping past 3 am every night, but I'm actually going to try to go to bed early tonight. I've already been developing some more structure to my schedule - class from 1-4 pm, then go to the gym after. Now I've been adding on my daily blog post (I've been starting them in the mornings and then finishing them up during class...I'm a terrible student oops). My last two puzzle pieces will be where to slot in work and study. One of my issues is I usually take US calls in the morning (family, friends, and other networking things) and have dinner plans at night, which really chops up my schedule. Anyways, things for future me to figure out.

Oh, and one more thing, I for sure have an internet addiction, but I've finally decided I need a break and I'm going to try to go cold turkey. It started off as just brainrot (adding 0 value to my life), but I started going into some rabbit holes last night which I could really feel affecting my mental state. I'm sure I'm actually going to get a lot of time back from that at least.