---
categories: japan
title: the second move (pt 1)
date: 2025-04-03 23:00:00
---

Turns out, moving was (and still continues to be) a little more taxing than I was expecting. It certainly didn't need to be this way, but I think because we feel like we have the luxury of time, we're trying to be both frugal and picky about our living situation. Also, since this is our first time furnishing an apartment together (and honestly, my first time furnishing an apartment _ever_ - I've managed to inherit furniture my whole life so far), we're also learning about each other's occasionally conflicting preferences. It's not necessarily a bad thing, but it is taking a lot more time and energy, and hence the blog going to the wayside for the time being. Picking up from where I left off previously:

We had a pretty tight moving timeline. Our new apartment's management company would only let us grab the keys from the realtor's office on Feb 20, and then we had Feb 21 to move and acquire some basic furniture before having to move out of our old place on Feb 22. (We also had a weekend trip planned, so had to prep for that too.) Miles and I also have different class times (Miles's class is 9:30am to 1pm and mine is from 1pm to 4:10pm, but about 20 min away from each other), which sometimes is a little annoying but has mostly been good because we have basically all-day coverage for errands if needed. We also had to be present in the apartment on move-in day for the utilities company to turn on our gas (is this only a thing in Japan?). Miles's school is close to the new apartment, and the new apartment is kind of far from the old apartment (~45 min one way) so it's non-trivial to go back and forth between the two. The realtor's office is close to the old apartment, and my school is somewhere in between. This is how we ended up planning the move:

Thursday, February 20
-\- Miles goes to school in the morning
-\- I go to the local post office to pick up an important mail delivery that I had missed (and was necessary for the apartment paperwork), more on this later*
-\- I go to the realtor's office to pick up the keys and resolve the last bit of paperwork
-\- I go up to Miles's school at exactly 11am to meet him during his 20 minute break to drop off keys
-\- I go to school
-\- Miles goes to the new apartment for the gas turn on
-\- We both return to our old apartment to finish packing

Friday, February 21
-\- I order an XL taxi to move all our stuff from our old apartment to the new one - making multiple trips would be a pretty big time sink. We figured the move would go a lot smoother with both of us present, so we wanted to schedule this early enough so Miles could make it to his 9:30am class.**
-\- Move, unpack, etc.
-\- Miles buys bedding/linens while I go to class in the afternoon
-\- Receive furniture delivery in the evening***

We decided this was by far the most efficient and cost-effective way to execute all of the tasks - if everything went according to plan, we would be fully moved in by Friday night with all the major checkboxes resolved. There were some elements that I had pretty big question marks around since it was my first time doing a lot of these things in Japan, so I was quite anxious that something would go wrong. The main consolation I was giving myself was that even if things went wrong, it wouldn't be the end of the world - it would just range from a little bit to significantly more inconvenient and potentially quite costly, which perhaps is the case for most plans that can potentially go wrong. Miles and I brainstormed a few plan B's - we could stay in our old apartment Friday night and finish the move Saturday morning, or if things go horribly awry, we could ask for an extension for our old apartment or book a last-minute hotel. Could sleep on the new apartment floor if we didn't receive beds. So on and so forth.

Some more context on a few of the tasks:

*Picking up mail
The last piece of the administrative apartment tasks was to register my bank account to pay rent. As mentioned in [apartment hunt pt. 3]({% post_url 2025-02-18-apartment-hunt-3 %}), it would've been ideal to get that set up upon signing the initial paperwork, but the management company and realtors were able to accommodate a workaround for the first payment. However, bank transfer is required for subsequent rent payments. I had actually gotten approved by the bank by the time I signed the initial paperwork on the 16th, but in order to actually receive my account number so I can access my account, I would have to wait for them to mail me my debit card. I didn't think much of it at the time because I figured the card would come in an envelope which should fit in our mailbox, but I guess you can indicate an in-person hand-delivery requirement for important mail. In hindsight, that's actually pretty nice because our mailbox has no security whatsoever, but no one informed me about a delivery ETA, so I ended up missing the delivery. When you miss a delivery, you get a slip in your mailbox where you can scan a QR code to schedule a redelivery. I got the notice on Wednesday, February 19th, and I really wanted to wrap up all the administrative tasks by the time we moved out, because it is a bit of a pain to make the trek all the way down again. I didn't think there was enough time for a redelivery, especially because odds were no one was going to be in the house according to our aforementioned plan. Luckily on the redelivery webpage there was also an option to pick up mail from the post office, which I figured would give me the best chance of receiving the mail on the 20th.

A small aside - for those unfamiliar, Japanese websites are really something. The UIs are often quite maximalist with so much text everywhere and very confusing navigation options, which is kind of ironic because Japanese culture feels like they would embrace minimalism more. The latest (and by latest I mean really of the last decade) webpage design principles set forth by big tech companies hasn't quite seeped into Japanese websites yet...looking at them does often feel reminiscent of the 00's era. But you can imagine it's even more intimidating when the giant wall of text is in a language you can't read. Often times I just turn on Chrome's built-in Google Translate for the webpage and a) pray that it works at all (sometimes the wall of text is just an image and then I have to screenshot every single page and feed it through translate), b) preserves input abilities - often the inputs fail post-translate, c) has accurate translations - I'm sure everyone's experienced questionable translation results, but the stakes are much higher when dealing with like, real things, believe it or not. So whenever I fill out a form online or read information from the translated version of the webpage, there is a small voice in the back of my head telling me that something probably went wrong.

I hadn't visited the post office up until this point, and it seemed like there were several around the area. The one listed on the redelivery website wasn't actually the closest one, so I was a little nervous that I had misinterpreted the website or when looking up the post office branch on Google Maps, there would be an error on that end. I showed up at the Ebara Post Office and stood outside, memorizing a Google Translated sentence: "I would like to pick up my mail." I went inside and it was empty. Confused, I double-checked the hours and it was definitely supposed to be open, but there was a sign on the booth window that I of course could not read. I was nervous that I was doing something wrong or messing up some process that all Japanese people just know of course. After waiting around a while and trying to peek in to see if anyone was around, I decided to ring the bell on the desk. Someone immediately came out and apologized. I completely forgot the phrase I tried to memorize but just handed her the slip of paper, and she understood. She then asked me some follow-up questions in Japanese, and usually at this point in a conversation I'd be totally screwed, but to my surprise, I understood her! She was asking for my ID, so I gave her my residence card, and then she asked if I had a MyNumber card (it's kind of like SSN but better and actually useful), which I did not. She asked me to sign something and then handed me my mail. I didn't have to pull out the translator app a single time and was able to complete a new task without thorough research ahead of time or any hiccups/confusion (...well, after I started talking to the worker at least). It was the first time I felt a real breakthrough in my Japanese communication abilities, because up until that moment, I honestly didn't feel like my Japanese classes were helping me much.

Feeling pretty great about my new Japanese achievements and that the plan for the day had worked out pretty well so far, I decided to celebrate with a donut from Mister Donut. I walked up to the cashier, rehearsing what donut flavor I wanted, thinking it was going to be like Dunkin' or Krispy Kreme where I'd make my requests at the counter. Nope, the donut display case opens out to the customer, so you're supposed to grab the donuts you want onto a tray and then the cashier will box it up for you. Alright, fine, that wasn't a _language_ problem, surely the rest of the donut buying process should be easy, I've bought hundreds of things before after all. After I handed the cashier my donuts, she asked me a question, which didn't match the preset series of cashier questions I was used to ("would you like a bag" or "how would you like to pay"). I just stood there and stared at her. She asked me again, and I still had no idea what was going on, until she pulled out a plate. Ah, she was asking for-here or to-go - it didn't even occur to me that a donut place would have a for-here option. Anyways, the feeling-good-at-Japanese high lasted a mere 2 hours...

**The actual move
In hindsight, I should've booked a car/movers in advance - I thought a taxi would've been sufficient since we hadn't acquired any new furniture, so in theory we should've had roughly the same amount of stuff that we arrived with: two large suitcases, a ski bag, and a carry-on suitcase. The ski bag was the biggest question mark in my mind, so I decided to book an XL taxi from Go Taxi - surely you'd be able to put the seats down on a 7-seater to make room for a long ski bag. I hadn't really considered the fact that a) we did acquire a decent amount of miscellaneous household goods, such as food and cleaning supplies, and b) the way we packed for Japan was a little absurd - our suitcases were bursting at the seams. Since we had the luxury of space and being able to pack things out into smaller boxes, we ended up offloading a lot of stuff we originally packed into our suitcase into extra cardboard boxes. The third thing, which was more minor, but the free cardboard boxes I got from the grocery store were all really small, probably a third to a half of a small-sized moving box you'd get from Home Depot etc. So we ended up having many tiny boxes that we had to move as well.

I was certainly nervous about asking a taxi to move our boxes, and luckily the app let me give the driver a call before he arrived at our apartment. I had just learned the word for bags/luggage in class, so I asked him if it was okay if we had a lot of bags. Like, a lot a lot. He didn't immediately say no, just, "I'd need to see it in-person in order to see if it will fit." When the taxi pulled up, it was indeed a large van as advertised, and it could barely squeeze onto the street that our old apartment was on. In theory we could've rented a car and moved the stuff ourselves (if we had the requisite licenses, which we didn't at the time), but I would be so nervous driving a large car through Tokyo, so I'm glad we called someone. I'm incredibly impressed with Japanese driving skills. The van was quite fancy though, not really a moving van but more like a high-quality limo, and the driver said the seats did not go down. My ski bag unfortunately didn't fit nicely, it took a bit of maneuvering and putting it at a diagonal, but such that the other bags wouldn't fit. Eventually Miles just moved the back seats forward and everything managed to fit. I felt pretty bad because we were occupying the narrow street for around 15 minutes - luckily no cars had to get through, but we had to pause and shift our operation around to let bikers through. That would've happened with any moving situation though, so I'm not really sure what people do when they have to go through a narrow street? Just back up and try a different route? It did all work out in the end but just barely. The driver charged me extra for the load/unload time which was totally fair, so I felt a little bit less bad about the whole thing. It was likely cheaper and much more flexible timing-wise than hiring movers, so I'm not totally sure what other options we had. My plan B if we couldn't fit everything would probably have been to order multiple taxis, or have us shuttle the remaining suitcases via public transit instead (I had successfully gotten my ski bag through public transit exclusively to go skiing before, so I know it can be done...even if pretty annoying).

***Acquiring furniture
I had been scouring Facebook groups for the past few weeks: Tokyo Sayonara Sales (this is mostly for people who are moving out of Tokyo and are trying to sell all their stuff as quickly as possible), and Mottainai Japan (basically a free/buy nothing group - Mottainai is the feeling of regret when something is wasted (i.e. "What a waste!")). Miles and I really hate buying new stuff - I think truly we embody the Mottainai spirit of feeling so sad when things go to waste. It's pretty difficult to get rid of stuff in Tokyo, you have to pay to trash bulky items, and people don't have large cars and homes with space so selling furniture second-hand is also challenging. (In many cases, it's much easier to buy new from a store that will come with delivery and assembly.) Thus was born an entire market for people giving things away for free. The downside is that free stuff is also pretty popular - I guess it depends on the season, but it seemed like the time that we were looking, the demand was way higher than the supply - things were getting nabbed left and right. Only if I responded to a post within an hour of it getting posted would I even get a chance to obtain it.

I finally spotted a post where someone was giving away two mattresses (a single and a semi-double: that's the equivalent to a twin and like halfway to a full), a table, and two chairs. It wasn't exactly what we were looking for - our previous apartment had a double mattress, and we were worried that the semi-double might've been too small, but we're getting free stuff, it's hard to be too picky. There was a new question of how to actually get that stuff to our apartment. I was learning that movers are pretty difficult to book - they are usually booked out weeks in advance, and with our very small window for furniture acquisition (either 2/21 or 2/22) and constraints on the seller's side, I had no idea where to look. I figured people are pretty desperate to get rid of their stuff, and since people selling furniture have probably been living in Tokyo longer, I asked the seller to help me out. They were really, really nice and found movers for me. (They also almost gave away the semi-double mattress to someone else, so I offered to pay a bit of money for the stuff and for helping me find the movers, which they happily obliged to.) Even though the sellers and movers tried proposing alternative times (that also didn't line up with each others' schedules), I managed to convince everyone to do the delivery on the evening of 2/22, which was the first night we were planning on sleeping in our apartment. 

All of these agreements were conducted over Facebook and Whatsapp, so I was (I think reasonably so) quite apprehensive that something was going to go wrong. I mostly had faith in the face that Japan isn't full of scammers and people will follow-through with their word for the most part. I'd ask for updates every step of the way, and once the movers reached the sellers and acquired the furniture, I felt much more relief. While the movers were on their way to our apartment, I had spotted another Facebook post from someone who lived on the way who had a couch and a desk. I figured now that we had the movers, it would be the best time to try to acquire as much furniture as possible to avoid needing to book the movers multiple times. They arrived with all the goods, pretty close to as-advertised, and I was so grateful that I could actually sleep on a mattress tonight in our new, far