---
categories: japan
title: china
date: 2025-05-02 23:00:00
---

I'm on a 7-hour-long train ride right now, so...incoming super long post.

Golden Week is a series of consecutive national holidays in Japan, which means we got about a week off from school. I have yet to experience Golden Week in Japan, but since popular spots are already packed with people on a normal weekday afternoon, I can't imagine what the holiday season would be like. The great thing about living in Japan is I can easily avoid peak season travel and tourism, so there were two options in my mind: stay at home, or leave the country (I guess there was technically a third option, which was to go to a non-touristy spot in Japan, but maybe I'll leave that for when I become more fluent).

Visiting China has been on Miles's bucket list for a while. It wasn't really on my radar because I visited China several times growing up, and the best way to sum up my sentiments towards the country is that all the things that inspired me to move to Japan, I think Chinese social culture might as well be the opposite. But, at least that was my impression growing up, and while an impression can last a lifetime, Miles's desire to see the country inspired me to give it another shot. And, he specifically wanted to go with someone who spoke Chinese, so I felt like it would be a good opportunity to see what 400 Sundays of going to Chinese school had amounted to (spoiler alert: as I painfully discovered, not much). After all, it's been about a decade since I last went, and it probably was one of the most technologically and infrastructurally productive decades in Chinese history. Also, all my prior visits have been with my mom or a larger group where I didn't have any travel autonomy and hardly had to interact with people, navigate, book things, etc., so I figured there would still be opportunity for novel experiences for me.

I had assumed that travel would be absurdly expensive during Golden Week, so I was actually fully mentally prepared to be a potato at home, but then a few weeks ago some friends had encouraged me to take a look at flight prices anyways. Indeed, there were some reasonable flights available, so I started seriously thinking about planning a trip. I had been seeing a lot of internet content about Chongqing lately, dubbed by some as a the "5D city". I've been to Beijing and Shanghai many times before, and while I'm sure a lot has changed, I was feeling a lot more excited about visiting places I've never been to before. I found very cheap roundtrip tickets to Hong Kong, and after some back-and-forth brainstorming with my personal travel agent (@ chatgpt.com, not sponsored), we came up with the following itinerary:

4/30 fly to HK, take the bus/metro to Shenzhen
5/1 explore Shenzhen
5/2 take the bullet train to Chongqing
5/3-5/4 explore Chongqing
5/5 fly to HK, explore HK
5/6 fly back to Tokyo

Now that the plan was set, it was time to apply for a China visa. Ideally, I would apply for a visa first, receive the visa, and then book all my flights and accommodations. However, in order to apply for the visa, you need to submit your full itinerary with all the booked flights and hotels. Uh, okay...well the good thing was that a) most of the things I booked in China were easily refundable, b) it seemed like as long as the visa center accepts your application, generally there would be no hiccups with the actual visa processing, and the Tokyo office reportedly churns them out in 4 business days.

I remember visa application "horror" stories from my mom growing up. The closest Chinese consulate to our house was in New York City, which probably took at least an hour, if not two to get to. (There might've been services closer to our house that would shuttle applications back-and-forth, my memory is hazy since I didn't do it myself.) But in any case, I remember my mom describing how banal the processing staff would be - your photo had to be cropped to a very specific dimension and pasted in the exact correct location, every field in the form needed to be filled out in a very specific way...if a single thing was not done up-to-standards (and the standards were not designed to be easily fulfilled, one might say impossible to do on the first try), the entire application would be rejected and you would either have to make the whole trip up to New York again or wait for the next application shuttle service.

Well, now it was my turn. The China visa application center in Tokyo is about an hour one-way from our apartment. The office is only open from 9am to 3pm, which meant I had to go before class, and the class attendance rules have only gotten stricter since I came to Japan. I had a window from 9am to 11:30am to get this task done, and if I got rejected for whatever reason, I'd lose time to get my visa back in time for the trip and burn another morning for dumb bureaucracy. I read every single word in the application process carefully, scanned all my personal documents, compiled my slightly complicated itinerary in a way that was as clear as possible, went to the convenience store to print it all out, and was feeling really good and prepared.

I arrived at the visa office with applications for me and Miles, and it occurred to me that the staff were mostly Chinese and spoke Japanese as their secondary language, not Japanese primary and English secondary as I'm generally used to. I guess this was the first test of my Chinese skills. First thing they said to me was that I couldn't process Miles's application on his behalf because I didn't have his residence card on hand (this issue did occur to me beforehand, but you are supposed to have your residence card on you at all times while you're in Japan, and while we've never been randomly stopped and asked for our card, it would've been crazy if I was like "yep I have it right here" and for them to be like, "wait, that technically means he doesn't have it on him now, right? that's illegal!" and gotten in trouble. I don't think that would've happened but...don't really want to be taking any risks). Anyways, they said, he needs to submit his fingerprints so the residence card is a less important issue (I didn't know the word for "fingerprints" in Chinese, I guess that never came up in school).

Okay fine, he'll have to come after his class and hopefully I will be able to transfer my learnings so it'll be quicker for him. Next issue: I had attached my full itinerary with receipts for all my flights and hotels, but neither mine nor Miles's names were on the printouts. That wasn't in the instructions, but, I guess that requirement makes sense, so that was on me for not catching it. I had to update all my bookings to include Miles's name on it and print out the full versions of the receipts again. Luckily there were printers at the office (probably because this stuff happens all the time), so it wasn't too difficult, just slightly time-consuming and annoying (and printing isn't free - it isn't too expensive, but also...the pages really add up).

Then came the real problem - I actually already had an active Chinese visa, but it was in my old passport. I had no idea that if your passport expires before your visa, your visa is still active, you just have to bring your old and new passport around. I was feeling a little bit dumb because I remember packing all my stuff in San Francisco, and deliberately packing away my old passport in the storage locker because I thought that if anything happened to my new passport and I needed to prove my identity or whatever, I could retrieve my old passport if absolutely necessary. In that case, it would be better to keep it in a static secure location than on my person since who knows what could happen to my belongings as I travel around. I could not have guessed that an expired passport would still have active utility. I told the staff, well, the old passport is in America so I'm happy to nullify the previous visa and apply for a new one. The staff replied, this is not for convenience's sake - you are not allowed to apply for a new visa as long as you still have an active one. It looks like your current visa expires in June of this year, so if you want to apply after June, you'd be okay. (Well, that timing is extremely unlucky for me, I thought - I would've been able to do this trip without even getting a visa.) They told me to ask my family members to mail my passport over. Well, not only is my passport in a very inconvenient place for anyone to get to, but if I managed to get someone to fetch it and send it over, I'm not sure it would arrive by my travel date anyways (or if I opted for expedited shipping, it would probably cost a looot). 

I thought about it for a bit more - I was sure there was a way out of this situation. Well, the reason why I had left my old passport in California was that I was worried I'd lose it or my current passport. 


---

Our flight to Hong Kong was scheduled for 3:45pm, which I figured would be enough time for Miles to go from his class, which ends at 1pm, straight to the airport, which takes about an hour. I think I need to start leaving some more buffer with my planning - luckily, I've managed to avoid most disasters, but with the number of close-calls I've had, my luck will certainly run out one day. We made it on time, but the airline called final boarding at 3:10, which seemed a little premature. I was originally planning on grabbing a proper meal ahead of time, but we had to haphazardly collect some convenience store snacks instead and rush onto the plane. We noticed there was a sign saying "no outside food or drink allowed", which seemed pretty cruel for a 4-hour-long flight that didn't serve meals onboard. Once we got on, we noticed that you could order food on the plane, but I had already bought a bunch of food beforehand. It was giving movie theater vibes - the no outside food or drink allowed rule is just there so that the airline can sell overpriced items that you're forced to purchase. I was very skeptical of the purpose of the rule, so we sneakily ate our own stuff anyways. Budget airlines these days are just getting worse...

We landed at 8pm, 


---

Exploring Shenzhen was an interesting experience. Typically when visiting a new place, if it's very unfamiliar to me, I'll usually book a bunch of activities ahead of time or just accept that I'll be pretty limited in what I can do. I guess there's just an expectation that you're a tourist and will do touristy things or have an extremely hard time doing non-touristy things. Even coming to Japan this time around, while it was our third trip to Japan so we understood the cultural norms a bit better, there's still a pretty steep learning curve with doing any task for the first time. I generally expect to have a hard time doing anything new in Japan with the language barrier.

But I've been to China before, it's not entirely unfamiliar, and I thought I spoke enough Chinese to be functional. In some ways, I figured traveling around China would be easier than a new spot in Japan at this moment. But, I was a little surprised to find that China is actually a lot less tourist-friendly than I expected, and it affected me in ways that was slightly unexpected too. 