---
categories: japan
title: Dosojin Fire Festival (道祖神祭り) 
date: 2025-01-16 23:00:00
---



(Backdated - published on 1/27)
On our way back from the ski trip last Monday (Jan 13), Ryan (new friend via Angela) was talking about a Fire Festival (not to be confused with [Fyre Festival](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fyre_Festival), which I'll admit was my first reaction when I tuned into the conversation). From the bits of anime I watched growing up, I knew festivals were a staple of Japanese culture and I've been wanting to check them out, but it seemed like the logistics would be challenging. I kind of figured Ryan had planned his trip way in advance, had a whole crew going, etc., but it turns out he hadn't planned anything at the time we had this conversation, but was still determined to go. The festival itself was the night of Wednesday, Jan 15, only 2 days after I learned about the festival's existence. He asked if any of us were interested - it was a bit of an insane plan, but I wasn't going to pass up on the opportunity to go to a festival, so I said yes. (It turns out I was the only one who agreed so it was just the two of us going.)

Well, the reason why this plan was slightly insane is that the festival is in [Nozawa-onsen](https://nozawa-onsen.com/), which is about a 3-hour train ride + 30+ min bus ride away from Tokyo, and it takes place on a weekday where no one had requested time off of work/school. When discussing the plan, Angela talked about a past attempt to go where she and her friends drove over, discovered that there was no parking, then went home without attending the festival. It was clear that taking the train was the only option (which is my preferred mode of transport anyways). We looked up the train schedule and there seemed to be no way to go and come back on the same day and attend the festival, which means we would have to stay overnight. All the hotels were booked out, but through magical sleuthing abilities which I have yet to obtain, Ryan managed to nab a place in town (this ended up being extra important because you apparently need tickets to attend the festival, which you can only get through local hotels). Ultimately, I was the only other person insane enough to agree to this plan, so it ended up just being the two of us on this journey.

The Dosojin Festival (道祖神祭り) is an annual festival celebrating Dosojin, a deity that prevents disasters from entering. You can read more about the festival [here](https://nozawakanko.jp/record/dosojin/) and [here](https://nozawa-onsen.com/nozawa-fire-festival/). But the only thing I knew going in was that there would be a big wooden structure as the centerpiece for the festival, and men of two "unlucky" ages: 25 and 42, would be "fighting" each other around the structure. Then at some point, the wooden structure would be set ablaze, and maybe there would be food and drink being handed out. I probably should've done a bit more research in hindsight.

I had to leave class early to catch the train, so even though I attended 2.5 of the 3 hours of class, I was still marked with a full unexcused absence for the day. Oh well, the price I have to pay to do all the things. I only had a backpack on me with pajamas and toiletries, otherwise I was just in my usual Tokyo outfit - a sweater, long skirt and leggings, and a wool coat. We hopped on the train and transfered at Omiya, where we got on the Shinkansen to Iiyama (closest stop to Nozawa). We got off the train and I got a good look outside - it was dumping snow. I was soooooo under-dressed for this weather. I actually knew it was snowing in the area because people were talking about it in the ski group chat, but for some reason I thought that was just in the mountains and not in the "town" of Nozawa where the festival would be. I very quickly learned that Nozawa _is_ a ski resort in the mountains.

To make matters worse, plan A was to take a taxi from the Shinkansen station to our hotel where we could drop off our bags and pick up tickets to the festival, then get a ride to the festival itself. That quickly broke down because we found out that no taxis were available in the area. Luckily there was a bus that took us pretty close to our hotel, but then from the hotel would be at least a 20-minute walk to the festival - not exactly a pleasant stroll in the current weather conditions. The bus inched along slowly as it tried to plow through fresh snowy roads and low visibility. We got to our hotel about a half hour after the estimated time, trudging through ankle-deep fresh snow. As a reminder, I was wearing thin leggings (luckily I had waterproof boots on - the only intelligent outfit decision I had made. Though maybe I would've preferred snowboard boots at that point).

The hotel was so cute, it was like going to an asian grandparents' home. We were running pretty late for the festival, and especially with the dreaded long trek ahead of us, so we were hoping to boop in and out (check-in, drop off stuff, and grab festival tickets), but we were informed by an old lady (unclear to me whether she worked there or was just around and being incredibly helpful) that the owner of the hotel had just left to go to the festival, but would be back soon. I was mildly worried because how soon is soon? They'd probably want to go for quite a bit, no? Ryan was chatting with the old lady in Japanese (I didn't understand anything) but apparently the owner was actually giving rides to the festival, that's why she was gone. She did indeed come back after a few minutes and offered us a ride. Wow, this was so much better than expected! I was fully mentally prepared to go on the painful journey to the festival on foot. On the car ride, I watched people slowly hiking along the road drenched in snow, and I had never been more glad to be in a motor vehicle.

We made it to the festival and it was packed. There were so many Australians there (right, it's a ski resort town), I for sure heard more Aussie English than Japanese. I think I was expecting like, booths and alleys that we would be able to walk around with a big stage at the end, or at least a little less audience density relative to the festival size and like fire everywhere that would keep us warm, but there was only one fire for most of it and we were really quite far from it. All of the festival action was happening in a stage-like setup with the huge wood structure in the middle and a giant crowd that we were in. It was honestly like going to a music festival without the big TVs - I was too short to see things so I was constantly trying to find gaps between shoulders or stand on my tip toes.


https://nozawa-onsen.com/nozawa-fire-festival/
https://nozawakanko.jp/record/dosojin/